(upbeat music)
- So this smartwatch
has one really interesting
trick up its sleeve
that I haven't seen in any
other, and that, honestly,
I don't think we're ever gonna see again.
So at this point we know
what a smartwatch is already, right?
This is a stable, mature category.
They deliver mostly across the board
on all the same functions.
And aside from the one crazy trick,
this one is no exception.
This is the OnePlus Watch 2,
three years after the
original OnePlus Watch
and it costs 300 bucks.
So for the $300 you're spending,
you're getting a pretty
nice circular watch design.
It comes in this black or
silver stainless steel body
and a sapphire cover glass
over a 1.4 inch, 60 hertz AMOLED display.
Design-wise, you could argue
it takes cues from maybe the OnePlus 11
or the OnePlus 12 with
the way the camera bump
is melted into the side rail of the phone.
They've done a similar thing here
with the buttons on the side of the watch.
So there's a circular button at the top
and this rectangular button at the bottom.
And I kind of like it. It's a nice shape.
It's got this little
subtle, classy variation
of just the pure circle.
And then the back looks
pretty standard too.
You got the four pins at the
top, those are for charging.
And it has all the sensors you'd expect
for a smartwatch in the middle,
optical heart rate sensor,
pulse oximeter for blood oxygen,
and of course, it still has
the interchangeable bands,
same as gen one.
And the whole thing is actually both IP 68
dust and water resistant
and reaches a US military
standard for durability.
Basically means it can also
withstand extreme temperature
and moisture
and shock among other things.
(watch taps)
It's not too heavy,
it's built pretty well.
This display goes up to a
thousand nits peak brightness.
So it looks good. It's
built well across the board.
Nice. So what's the catch?
What's the weird twist?
Well at the beginning I
mentioned like we already
kind of know what a smartwatch is,
which is a tiny computer on
your wrist with a tiny screen
and a tiny battery.
And that's fine.
Like they all tend to have
pretty short battery lives
just because they're so small,
and so you kind of just
charge 'em every day.
And that's the way it is.
Like the main competitors
here are the Apple Watch,
which is 18 hours,
although that's not the
most direct competitor
'cause that's the iPhone.
But the Galaxy Watch, one of the best,
40 hours of battery,
and the Pixel Watch, the newest one,
24 hours of battery life.
But this one, OnePlus
is claiming 100 hours.
100 hour battery life in Smart Mode,
which is not the battery saving mode,
it's actually the
default mode out the box.
100 hours.
So 96 hours is four days.
I feel like, you know, 100 sounds cooler
so they just went with 100.
But four days of battery
sounds a lot less inconvenient.
So, you know, I had to
put that to the test.
So for the past four straight days
I've been that guy walking around
with both an Apple Watch Ultra,
which claims 36 hours of normal use
and this thing.
Doing all the same stuff
with both watches on,
getting notifications, doing workouts,
just poking around the UI.
And by the end, I was actually
very impressed with both.
So the $800 Apple Watch Ultra
actually over performed the
36 claimed hours for me.
By hour 56 it was about ready to die.
Now meanwhile, the OnePlus
Watch had about 15% left.
Now you're probably thinking, wait,
that's not even close to
100, it's like 50 something.
But OnePlus told me that
if you turn the always on display off,
that's good for two more
days of battery life,
it's actually off by default.
I turned it on for this test,
but that would get you well
over the 100 hour mark.
To be fair, that's also probably true
about the Apple Watch Ultra.
Now one detail to consider
that I think actually mattered
for this particular test.
I've been wearing hoodies a lot
'cause it's that type of weather.
And so even with the sleeves
on this Chevron Hoodie,
which I'll link it below
'cause you probably wanna check it out.
It covers the watch.
And so when you cover the
watch with your sleeve,
it thinks it's in the dark
'cause the light sensors are covered
so it turns the brightness
way down on the watch.
And so I think that's why it outperformed
the battery numbers that it's claiming
is 'cause I had a sleeve
over it a lot of the times
and the brightness was low.
But even still, this $300 watch
outperformed this $800 smartwatch
just in terms of battery.
Now here's the thing.
The way that they're
achieving this battery life
is, I think, more interesting
than the battery life itself.
This is the twist.
See, most smart watches
have a chip inside,
computing everything,
with some high powered cores
and some high efficiency cores
to balance out power and battery life.
This watch has two entirely
separate processors
and two different operating systems
running for each of them.
So there's a high powered
Snapdragon W5 inside,
that's powering Wear OS 4
and that only lights up for
things connected to that.
Then there's also a BES 2,700 chip
that is always on and runs RTOS.
And they both share the
same 32 gigs of base storage
and two gigs of RAM.
So Wear OS kicks on for
the more intensive tasks
like maps or music playback.
But the RTOS that's always on
is for those basic, low power tasks:
heart rate monitoring, phone calls,
notifications, background stuff.
It's like a hybrid car.
It's really interesting.
And a fully electric car,
you guys already know
has all the benefits of
being really responsive
but not the best range.
But a gas car has a ton of range,
just not as responsive as fully electric.
So if you get a hybrid,
best of the both worlds,
responsive and range.
And this watch, it's a hybrid
with the best of both worlds,
responsiveness and range.
So I've been pretty impressed.
You know, using this
thing, it's responsive.
It has a ton of watch faces.
There's a lot of custom workouts
which look very familiar with tracking
and everything that
still sends all the data
to the OHealth app in
plenty of detail for me.
I do still wish now, shoveling
snow was a workout type,
but that's another story.
But you know, these here are
regular weightlifting workouts.
And also, can I say I
really like that it is
hold to end the workout, not tap to end.
So it's way harder to
accidentally stop a workout.
Great idea.
Also another weird quirk,
this button here has a crown that rotates.
But that rotation doesn't
actually do anything.
It doesn't change the volume,
it doesn't scroll up or down in anything.
It does nothing. It's not
connected to anything.
It just freely spins.
apparently, that's
literally just to make it
more durable upon impact.
Doesn't serve any function.
Also, it does have this weird hitch,
that it hasn't really
gotten any less annoying,
which is if I get a notification,
I feel the buzz on my wrist,
then I lift up my wrist
and it takes like a full two seconds
to show me the notification I just got.
Not that two seconds is a
disaster, it's not a ton of time,
but it's longer than you expect,
and it kind of annoys me to have to wait
in comparison to other watches,
which will just show me the
notification right away.
And I feel like you can
actually see the moment
that it fires up the Snapdragon W5
and Wear OS kind of snaps
on right in front of you
before it shows you that notification.
It's very odd.
But here's the other twist on top of
everything we've already talked about.
I don't think this dual chip system
is all of the magic creating
this great battery life,
because this watch also has
a 500 MilliAmp hour battery.
Now 500 MilliAmp hours
doesn't sound like a lot,
but here's the sizes
of other smart watches
in competition with this
and their battery sizes
and how long they last.
And it's a little bigger
than you'd expect.
Now if I gave the Pixel Watch 2,
which also has a
Snapdragon W5, by the way.
If I gave the Pixel Watch 2
a 500 MilliAmp hour battery,
do we think it would last 50 hours?
I don't know, but there you go.
Honestly, at the end of the day
I just came away from
this mostly just impressed
that they actually kept the
price of this watch so low.
Because two chips and two OSs
and the work that goes into that,
I dunno, to me that just sounds expensive
and it's really not missing
anything else too drastic.
I think it's competitive in a
lot of good ways at 300 bucks.
So I think the clear positives would be:
a nice design, really classy
looking design, nice display,
dual frequency GPS, so
that's for better accuracy,
and then of course
really good battery life.
The four days we talked about is awesome,
but if you put on power saver mode,
it's up to 12 days of battery life.
Now this is gonna disable a
lot of the Wear OS things,
so it's just basic stuff,
exercises, heart rate monitoring,
but you could get it to really
last a week if you wanted to.
But then the weaknesses are
definitely the delay in
checking your notifications.
The haptics also aren't that nice,
and there's no iPhone compatibility,
but you already knew that.
But I would also say the
charger is not that cool.
Honestly, it's kind of clunky.
I mean it works perfectly
fine, don't get me wrong,
but it's just like a big plastic block
with pins and magnets in it.
But it'll get you a full
day's charge in 10 minutes
and a full charge in an hour.
So that's acceptable.
But for 300 bucks, I'd say
OnePlus has redeemed itself
from its previous
efforts in smart watches.
It's pretty good.
Like in a world of smartwatch gimmicks,
there's the one with earbuds inside,
there's the one for fitness,
there's the one for the iPhone.
Maybe this is the one
with the hybrid system
and pretty good battery life.
(upbeat music)
Maybe that's enough for you.
Let me know in the comments below.
Either way, that's been it.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you the next one. Peace.
(upbeat music)